Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Credit to Christine Le Piez (translated)
THE FOLLOWING STORY
IS BASED ON TRUE EVENTS
The guy went blind.
- Correct.
Next question.
Which two countries share
the longest border in the whole world?
The longest border shared by
the two of them, one on either side.
The same length.
- One country on either side.
China and Russia.
Wrong.
- Canada and the USA.
OK, next question.
What's the most common Jewish toast?
- Toasted matzo!
I don't know.
- La'chaim.
La'chaim means 'to life'.
Ask me a question. I know everything.
- What does DNA mean?
To me?
- No, to everyone, including you.
OK. Deoxyribonucleic acid.
I don't believe it!
We could just measure them
to see whose is longest.
Measure them?
Yes, let's measure them.
OK, Mario first.
Could be better.
That's a good one!
They're there, they're there.
It's the Americans.
Missiles, missiles.
Cruise missiles.
The Americans are there.
They're there. They're there.
What's the matter?
- It's happening.
What is?
- They can't get through. It's blocked.
They're there.
- Attack!
It's war, guys!
TIME OF MY LIFE
That's dangerous.
Doesn't look like nuclear missiles.
- I reckon it's full of hamburgers.
You up there, get the fuck down!
Get your arse down from there.
- You get out of my country.
Thomas, duck!
Shit, Speck.
- Sorry.
My hero.
You're my hero too. My two heroes.
A fine pacifist you are.
- Sorry, I thought you would duck.
You were lucky, pal.
- Me? Absolutely.
Me, I was born lucky.
We have to squeeze into
that little tent again later.
There's room in my tent.
Where's Jean-Pierre-Christian-
François-Yves-Bernard?
He's gone off to learn to count.
- To 69?
No, to two.
He usually only got as far as one.
Exit Jean-Pierre-Yves.
What do they say at the sperm bank?
- Thank you for coming.
He said he wanted to stay friends
but I said I already had enough friends.
You're some chick, you are.
- Life is for living!
Nurse.
I'm bleeding badly.
Speck.
- A tourniquet.
No, no, it's better now.
Because I held my hand there?
The magic touch.
Anyone else?
- You've done enough damage.
Suppose you have to choose.
- Have to?
Yes, you have to choose.
A gun is being held to your head.
Choose.
- No.
Choosing is losing. No.
So we're just numbers 384 and 385
on the list?
No, that's the point.
- What's the point?
That's the point, neither of you.
Or both of you,
that's an option too, of course.
Both of us?
- Yes.
Yeah, well, why do you think
a woman has two hands?
And two legs?
And two eyes. And two lips.
- One small anatomical detail,
why has a woman only got one...
- Tent?
Very good, doctor.
Good point, doctor.
Because boys have to learn to share.
I'm up for it.
OK, so am I.
Goodnight.
- Goodnight.
Have we finished?
Go to sleep now.
One. One kiss.
Eh... Hello, I'm here too.
Thomas?
Thomas, how do you want me?
Out of the tent?
Silly idiots!
- Does my breath stink, or something?
Someone's there.
What are you lot up to?
- Trying to sleep, pal.
No messing about or...
- No, boss.
My air bed's deflated.
What a shame!
Push. Call that pushing?
- That's pushing.
That's it, thanks.
We're going home, guys!
IN HEAVEN
Baby!
- Speck!
Hey, what's going on?
That's mine.
- Yeah, yeah. Hi Sask.
Couple of clowns.
Right, shall we go?
- Yes.
What an ugly git!
- The guy's a monster.
Women are weapons of mass destruction.
See you later.
Fancy a drink?
- We could have a drink.
We must have a drink.
- We will.
Honestly!
- So cool. It's so cool.
Miss? Angel of this heaven?
I would like to order a beer
for my friend here.
With gin and milk.
- You're a nice friend.
Yeah, I think so too.
Shall we be friends?
Haha, nice try.
Here you are.
Lachoom, lachim, lacham...
What was it again? La'chaim.
Another one?
A hand.
And another hand.
Both for me?
No whispering!
Here's the boundary.
A conversation here. And us here.
In the name of the Father
and Saint Lecher.
Omen.
When is it your turn?
- When you're available again.
Hey, watch it, doctor.
She's mine, hands off.
- Listen to him.
Thomas is the godfather?
So he didn't get to choose then?
Speck, stop it, pal. Come on.
There you are,
a great thinker has been born.
Honestly. That's not funny, Speck.
All philosophers have a beard.
Thank you.
Well done, doctor!
Here's Doctor Love!
Here he is, Dr Zhivagina.
Can we all be your patients, doctor?
- You can.
Me too, me too.
- You too, you too.
A bit higher.
- Thomas.
Honestly!
- Vote for Verstraete.
Hey, Thomas.
Stop, that's enough.
I want to be elected.
Here, Milan.
- Like this.
Milan, help! Help me!
We need more hot chicks for the workers.
- Hot chicks for the barman.
Vote for Verstraete.
Vote for me.
- Vote for me.
Certainly not for me.
Can you sign this, please?
You are now officially divorced.
What does a divorced man do?
- Masturbate.
Hang around in bars.
- Let's go to a bar first, then.
Fine.
Did you make all those shelves
yourself, doctor?
Yeah, I made them all myself.
And have you read all those books?
- Yes... well, I've read that one there.
That book of photos?
- No, it's a colouring book.
Is it a clean illness?
I only do clean illnesses.
It's OK, it's my eyes.
Mainly my eyes.
That's your age, pal.
Shall I prescribe you some glasses?
You're a politician,
they all wear glasses.
I wouldn't touch that,
because...
Right, drop them...
Just joking, come with me.
And that one?
- R-D-O-X-L-D-E-C...
Top, bottom, left, right.
I can see all that, Thomas.
But I see black spots all the time.
When I had a shower the other day
I saw double for quite a while.
So...
That's not good.
'That's not good.'
Couldn't you sound a bit less ominous?
I'm going to refer you to a specialist.
- At last, a real doctor.
He's very good.
A neurologist?
Shouldn't I see an eye specialist?
If something's wrong, tell me.
No, no. We'll cross that bridge
when we come to it.
It doesn't hurt to
exclude various things.
Or to entrust your brilliant,
perverse brain to science.
What if they want to keep
my brilliant brain and put it a jar?
It'd be a very small jar...
It'd be great if you could
see him next week. Yes.
Excellent.
Yes.
Yes, he's a friend of mine.
Right. OK, thanks. Bye.
Right.
That bloody sucks!
Yes.
Condemned.
I didn't do anything wrong. Nothing.
And bang, I get life.
Have you made your choice?
Two thirty-threes.
Two thirty-thlees.
- That's right.
And to dlink? Minelal water?
- Yes.
Two minelal waters to dlink.
Thank you.
Thirty-thlee. It's incredible we're
still ordering it just to annoy the man.
With plawn clackers.
- And flied lice.
When I came outside I thought the world
must surely have stopped turning.
I've got MS, I've got multiple
sclerosis! Everything's going to stop.
But everything carries on. The buses are
still running, people are laughing.
Everything is carrying on, so I must.
Plawn clackers and minelal water.
There you go.
- Thanks.
You can learn to live with it.
- Your colleague said that too.
'In some cases people
just learn to live with it.'
But what about the other cases?
- OK...
MS can take various forms.
There are lots of examples of people
who have it under control.
Yeah, right. Superman is
in a wheelchair too, isn't he?
He just loves that.
I'm so fuckin' angry.
So fuckin' angry!
With my body.
My bloody stupid body.
I feel betrayed.
I feel so betrayed, Thomas.
Your applause please for André and
Jeanine who have been together...
for 250 years
because they couldn't find anyone else.
My condolences, Jeanine.
He's full of life.
- You know Mario. Doesn't give up.
Can you hear it, Milan?
Can you hear it?
It's a cruel illness.
He's fine again now
but who knows what will happen
the next time he has an attack.
I always worry
what the outcome will be.
Yes, but it may stabilise.
You have to learn to
live with being ill.
But who wants to, eh?
- Thanks, sweetheart.
Fancy a drink?
- There aren't many good-looking chicks.
Aren't there?
- No.
You're right. You and I'll have to
make do with each other then.
D'you know what the advantage of MS is?
There isn't one. Not a fuckin' thing.
Oh yes, there is.
You're allowed to piss in letterboxes
if you can't wait any longer.
Thank you.
There are other shitty illnesses too,
you know.
No, you're right.
The advantage is you don't die of it.
The disadvantage is...
you don't die of it.
You'd have preferred otherwise,
or what?
You know... you learn to stumble on.
That that works too.
So I'm stumbling cheerfully on,
but let me make one thing clear, Thomas,
if one day I can't do it any more,
I won't carry on stumbling on.
Meaning?
I'm not going to die
a slow, painful death like my grandma.
Let's not go on about
Dying With Dignity again.
OK, it's a silly name
for a pressure group.
But who can object to
dying with dignity? No one.
Are you already thinking about that?
No, I'm not.
Not yet.
One day, maybe.
I need to know that
if the house is ever on fire,
someone will take me to the exit.
- Typical. What do you mean by exit?
You know very well what I mean.
I need to know I am safe.
That someone will help me,
should it ever be necessary.
What does necessary mean?
Will you help me?
- Don't talk like that, you're drunk.
I'm not drunk.
I haven't had that much too much,
but that's not the point.
Will you help me,
should it ever be necessary?
Yes, I'll help you.
- Perfect, that's all I need to know.
I know you'll help me.
I know you will.
Come on, let's go and have a drink.
I'm paying. One last drink.
Or rather, the last but one.
Come on, Thomas. La'chaim!
Or I'll be lachrymose.
Come on, Thomas.
PERSONAL COMMENT ON
THE EUTHANASIA DEBATE
IF I CAN NO LONGER
LIVE WITH DIGNITY,
I WANT TO DIE WITH DIGNITY
So you knew about it?
- Yes. Well...
Yes and no, Francine.
I mean, I knew...
I knew he was a member of
the Dying With Dignity pressure group
but you two knew that too, eh?
- Yes, but...
But he always said it wasn't for him.
MS isn't a fatal illness.
You've told us that often enough.
So why is he talking about dying?
He's still OK?
Yes.
Yes, for someone who is ill.
You will help us, won't you?
Promise me.
You have to promise us.
It's keeping Roger awake at night.
Of course I'll help you, Francine.
Of course I will.
Good.
Good, Thomas.
Hey, a visitor!
Hello, citizen.
What's that?
- A piece I sent in.
Why?
What was the idea?
It's a fight.
Like when we were young, Thomas.
That stirs things up.
- Yes, that stirs things up.
A lot. Especially for your parents.
I hope no one reads that
to your son. Honestly!
'When the time comes, I want to leave
this life with a clear conscience.'
For the umpteenth time, Mario,
you can grow as old as me.
Or older.
- Read what it says.
'When the time comes.'
- And we have to sit and wait with you?
'The doctors who've promised to help me
aren't murderers who should be punished
but people who will commit
a humanitarian act.'
I hope you don't mean me.
If you'll excuse me, I've got other
humanitarian acts to carry out.
And call your mother.
- My mother? Thomas!
What?
Wait a minute.
Calm down.
Fancy a Chinese?
There you are.
What would you like to dlink?
Minelal water.
- Minelal water. OK.
He's great. I reckon
he only does it to oblige us.
Yeah.
But seriously...
Why do you keep on about dying? Why?
I don't understand
why no one talks about it.
All those people at their parents'
bedside, as they die of rampant cancer,
only talk about the weather, about food.
'It's nice here, the staff are friendly
and blah blah blah.'
And that's the solution? Frightening
your parents by talking about dying?
I've got it.
- Shit.
It's OK.
- Sorry.
I can see half of everything
perfectly, Thomas.
Half of the world about me, half of
this table, half of your ugly face.
Honestly. But the other half is white.
A patch of white.
Look, here I can see everything.
Here I can still see my hand and here
it's gone. Here I can and here I can't.
I don't know if it's there.
Understand?
Is it still there? I don't know.
What will happen
when everything has gone?
How will I know
whether you are still there?
That you haven't run off and
left me here with the bill?
Thomas, you can't imagine
how beautiful everything is
when you can only see half of it.
Honestly.
My glass is half full, Thomas.
And I cherish every single drop.
But what will happen
when all my half-full glasses
are emptied one by one,
right in front of me?
What then?
In the event of balance problems,
the difficulty of the exercises
is gradually increased.
We start in a seated position,
one in which the patient feels safe.
And then standing up,
which is a much less stable position.
You don't have to come and live here.
Just come along once a week.
This place is top-notch.
- Top-notch?
Is that what you call it?
Top-notch, hotchpotch.
It's the best in the world, idiot.
- Great.
...urological and
genealogical problems,
and use physiotherapy to...
Dr Lambert would like to see you.
- OK.
OK if I leave you?
- Sure. Top-notch.
...weakened muscles and
balance problems...
Right. Fine.
Hello.
- Ah, doctor.
Thank you for seeing us so quickly.
- Yeah, yeah.
Listen, I shall be honest with you.
I think Mr Verstraete has got a nerve,
coming here
after everything he's said in the press.
In order to prevent joint problems
and maintain mobility
we carry out passive mobilisation
and stretching of spastic muscles.
Some patients...
breathing exercises...
language exercises... concentration...
treatment of the muscles...
with targeted psychological tests
we check whether... sometimes...
If we were to give all these people
the impression, if only for a moment,
that a gentle, painless injection
would put them out of their misery,
we've opened the door.
And then where will they find
the courage, every day, to...
Hello, Mr Verstraete.
I'm Dr Lambert.
- Hello, doctor.
How are you?
I've seen better films but I'm OK.
Top-notch.
Right...
Let's see what we can
maybe do for you here
but I have to admit, you won't exactly be
the most popular patient here.
Oh, right...
Look, Mr Verstraete,
those are my heroes.
Every day they have to concede
something, they lose something,
but they don't give up, they carry on.
They carry on fighting.
The idea that you would take away their
desire to live, their zest for life...
I'm sorry, but to be honest,
I don't admire you for that.
He means that...
- It's OK, Thomas.
I don't want to take anything
away from anyone.
I don't want anything.
I admire everyone here.
And you too, doctor, but...
Mario.
Mario, wait a minute.
Mario, wait.
Are you OK?
- No, I'm not OK.
No, I'm not OK.
I'm not alright. I'm not.
Just wait a minute!
For God's sake!
I don't want to. I don't want to.
Come on, mate.
Bloody hell. Stupid... stupid body.
It's OK, we're going back to the car.
Hey, Jef.
We're strong in the Speck family.
We cry a bit, in this valley of tears,
act a bit silly
and resign ourselves to our fate.
That's what life is like.
It's a nasty illness,
when you see him like that.
MS is an illness that can be bad or
not too bad at all. But in his case...
In his case it's bad.
You wonder why they were invented.
- Illnesses?
To test us, I suppose.
An experiment by God.
I read you're intending to
try to convince the Senate.
I've been invited as a member of
the Dying With Dignity pressure group.
Well...
- It's good they want to listen, eh?
Incredible they want to listen to you.
Thomas doesn't want to take me,
I'm looking for a chauffeur.
We always said we would infiltrate
the organs of state.
Aren't you coming?
- No, I'm not.
To stick bogies on the benches?
- No, I'm not coming.
There are women there...
- No!
That's the palace,
we want Rue de la Loi.
We're not going to see the king,
we're going to the Senate.
Shit. Here we go! Long live the King!
Bloody hell!
- What?
What's this, Speck?
Baby sick? Ricotta?
I know, but they don't tell you that
when you have one.
Everything you put in it comes out again
in strange forms and in huge quantities.
But a good conversation,
you can forget that.
Can you shut up, Speck?
All those people.
- Wow! You're a star, pal.
It's not about the right to die
but about the right to live a full life.
As you know,
I've got multiple sclerosis
but I still really enjoy life.
I'm going to carry on until
I can't do it any more and I hope
that day is in the very distant future.
But when it comes, I won't be afraid.
He made it into the Senate.
- I'd rather he'd done it differently.
...and protracted suffering...
Look, that other guy is here.
Dr Death.
And I hope to be able to include you
among these people.
Thank you.
Thank you, Mr Verstraete,
for this very human testimony.
Who would like the floor?
Mr Verstraete, don't get me wrong,
I understand your situation
but do you have any idea of
the snowball effect
that your possibly rather
selfish act will cause?
Mr Verstraete, I understand your anxiety
regarding your declining health,
but your desire to sideline science
is, in my opinion, questionable.
Huge progress has been made in
controlling pain in recent years.
I wonder if you've asked your doctors
and looked into it in sufficient detail.
This amounts to suicide and,
by extension, to murder.
Murder with the knowledge,
the complicity of the doctors.
But I hope... I sincerely hope
you will find the strength to live.
And not to die.
Everyone can do that.
Dr Frank Valaeys
from Dying With Dignity
also thinks Mario Verstraete's testimony
is very important.
What he wants to show and defend
is the fact that the patient
has the right to control his life...
You can say what you like
but I'm not sure about Dr Ghoul.
It is important for the grieving
process of those left behind
that the death is experienced
in a positive way.
OK, a positive experience. I can't wait.
The sooner the better, eh?
Hand me my crutch.
I knew you'd do that.
And the other one.
- Not again.
This is one of our better models.
Top of the range.
It's easy to control.
On-off, forwards, backwards.
And here there's a belt...
- Is that necessary? Hey, Milan.
Be careful.
- Milan, Milan, Milan. Sorry, sir.
Hold on.
- Brilliant.
Hey, our...
- Oh, sorry. Sorry.
We're being followed.
Go, go.
- Sit down, sit down.
No, it's OK, it's OK.
- Sorry. Is everything OK? Sorry.
No problem.
- We'll take it.
Right.
- Yes.
Faster.
- That's some pan flute!
Keep straight, keep straight,
keep straight...
We'll end up in the bushes.
Hello.
Daddy.
- What lovely weather.
In a minute we're going to go over the
handlebars, crash, explode and die.
Dangerous lunatic!
We survived, my son.
- Hold me.
There, a dog. Get the dog. That's it.
That was fantastic.
- Very nice.
Fantastic.
You've left your light on.
- Oh yeah...
You think it's a shame
you can't push me, eh?
Pushing engenders sympathy.
- Helping a handicapped guy.
Those stairs aren't a good idea.
- It's alright.
I do like mountaineers do,
rest now and then.
I'm going to carry you.
- What?
- No.
Yes, Mario.
- Oh, Thomas.
Come on. Don't.
You wanted to help me.
- That's not helping.
Sorry.
I always dreamt of being in your arms.
- I can imagine.
You, Tarzan, me...
- A faggot.
Going to be able to manage?
- Yes, I'm a big boy.
I can go to the loo by myself.
Look. Look.
My leg.
That's my body saying,
'Fuck you, I'm not playing any more.'
It bends upwards every night.
I have to push it back down
but it comes back up.
Does that hurt?
- Ever had cramp when swimming?
It's like that, all night long.
I'm bearing up, Thomas.
But let's be honest,
I'm not getting any better, eh?
Fuck...
I'm going to push a bit further.
- OK.
If it hurts, hold your finger up.
- Just 'ow' isn't enough?
That's not so clear.
Your finger is better.
Here we go.
OK.
You like that, don't you?
Hurting people.
That's why I do this job.
I used to go to S&M clubs.
S&M clubs?
- You should try it, it's great.
Fantastic. But they kicked me out.
I hurt everyone too much.
And it's dear. Expensive.
All that equipment.
All those balls in your mouth.
Balls in your mouth?
- Bowls, bowls.
Can I see your diploma?
Think about it, Francine.
Come and live here.
In the big city for a change.
- He doesn't want us to.
It's not up to him. Then you don't
have to keep going back and forth.
It'd be easier.
We put our coats on and leave
in the evening and go upstairs.
In the morning we come down, take our
coats off and ask if he slept well.
We'll have to be quiet.
- We can do it quietly.
Watch out.
Throw it.
That's perfect. There you are.
'Every morning at 8 o'clock
I have a huge bowel movement.'
'Great,' says the doctor. 'Regular
bowel movements are a good sign.'
That's important.
- 'That's good.'
'Yes, doctor, but I don't wake up
until 9 o'clock.'
That's a good one.
- Yeah, eh?
Right. So tell me...
How is the plumbing?
- A few leaks.
Leaking pipes.
My body's 'taking the piss'!
What about the rest?
Well...
Things are a bit limp down there.
It sleeps even more than me.
I think your chauffeur's here, sir.
- Yeah.
I'll just check your reflexes.
Yes, they're still working OK.
Got the right shoes on, Dad?
- Yeah, yeah.
Incredible. You're walking to Lourdes?
I can't give you a lift, eh? Otherwise
it won't count as a pilgrimage.
Not even a little way?
Having faith is healthy.
Gets you out of the house.
Good thing Lourdes is near Oostakker.
Otherwise it'd take you a while.
Nice of the mayor to send his own driver
to collect his staff.
Yes. But look.
He was writing a speech yesterday.
And I read it.
There aren't any vowels
in half the words.
Keep praying, Dad.
And if I'm not cured
then Our Lady of Lourdes is deaf.
I said to him to give it to me,
I'd copy it out neatly
but he said I didn't need to,
it was fine like that.
If... If he can't work any more,
can't read the paper,
can't follow politics...
The 1 O'clock News.
The Senate's committee on euthanasia
has finished its work.
The final text of the legislative bill
has been drafted and sent to the Senate.
The question is will Belgium become
the second country after the Netherlands
in which euthanasia is legal
in certain cases?
The principle of the bill is...
See you later, Robert.
- Yeah.
Be good.
It's very dusty and...
your film wasn't in there properly.
- Thank you.
Hello. I'm looking for
a really big present.
Size isn't always important, eh sir?
It's the quality that matters.
Thomas, come here.
Long time no see, Thomas!
That's some service you get here.
- Always.
Hey, Dr Love.
How are you?
- Fine, fine.
It could always be better,
but I'm fine.
And Mario?
- Well... Good and not good.
He hasn't changed. He sees another good
cause as a matter of life and death,
but a bit too literally this time.
I'm sure you've heard.
- Yes.
I haven't got round to going to see him.
- That's OK.
No, it's not OK. I feel really guilty.
The guiltier I feel,
the less I dare go
and the guiltier I feel...
That's alright.
But I need a present.
- A big one.
Long shall he live. Or is that
going too far? Yes, let's sing it.
Long shall he live, long shall he live.
- He says not very long, but still...
In glory.
Hip hip hip.
- Hurrah!
There! I thought someone was missing.
Look who's here.
Superman.
A serious guest at last.
You look like a dog with two tails.
Emphasis on dog!
I've brought you two presents.
The first one...
For your collection.
Now I can wear my underpants
on top of my trousers.
You can laugh but Christopher Reeves
is going to make a film.
Yes, with his chin.
The second present is
a phenomenal toy.
Full option.
And you still know how to use it.
Ready?
Hi...
- Hello, Mario.
Happy birthday, hero of mine.
Hello, Lynn.
I've brought you an extra present.
For your ego.
It's the Genius edition.
- Trivial Pursuit.
Lynn, if life were a question,
you'd be the answer.
That's a good one.
I'm going to remember that.
Lynn...
One, one, one.
- Right. Brown.
Beatles fans crossed which road 25 years
after the LP of the same name appeared?
Oh, thingy... Abbey Road.
- Correct.
How many front claws has a parrot got?
- Two?
Correct.
- I've thrown a six.
Two. You can throw again.
One. Orange.
Again.
- Is that a thingy? No.
Come on, Mario.
- A good one. A good one.
And he throws the dice.
Green. Ladies and gentlemen,
the tension is mounting.
Is he going to beat the previous winner,
Dr Thomas, who's in great shape?
Mario is not in such good shape,
but still...
I can say that, eh?
Which archipelago inspired
Charles Darwin's theory of evolution?
I know it. Come on.
Hold on. Charles Darwin...
An archipelago. That's easy.
Come on, say it.
- The Galapagos Islands.
Exactly.
You told me to say it.
- It was my question.
Give me another question.
That's not fair.
Music. For a wedge.
What was Bob Marley's
legendary group called?
Of course.
Come on.
Fuck!
Come on, I know it.
Of course, it's...
Hold on. I know it. Shit. Fuck!
I'll tell you.
- No, Mum.
Bloody hell!
You don't have to answer. It's not
your question. You just ask it.
D'you think I can't remember,
that I'll never remember? Do you?
Hey...
- What?
You 'wail' remember.
Wailers. The Wailers.
I slept with them.
With the Wailers. All of them.
At the same time.
That's a lot at once,
there's eighteen of them.
It's not true, Francine.
Come on, let's carry on playing.
There. Three.
Come on, come out of my stomach, child.
Being born...
I'm alive.
- Yes, you're alive.
At last.
- Mum's here.
Two kids in one T-shirt.
I don't believe it.
- Hello, Mummy.
I'm off.
- Bye, Mummy.
Here.
- Ah, some water.
Thank you, Mummy.
Give here. Right, bye.
Bloody hell, Mario, you're like
a little kid. Do you have to?
I'm off.
That was good, eh?
Enjoy yourselves. Bye.
- Bye.
Let's have a sleep.
Bye.
- Bye.
And now we're awake.
And now we're asleep.
Listen.
Can you hear it?
Now.
This...
Those are the seconds.
It's night-time,
we're in a palace in Venice.
The seconds are ticking past.
The story starts in the evening
and ends in the morning.
The hours are passing.
The Dance Of The Hours.
That's what it's called.
I don't like it.
- That's not possible.
You can't not like that.
- Maybe, but I don't.
Really? Then get out of my T-shirt!
Can I go and play football?
- That depends.
How do you spell 'I will become'?
I will become what? What will I become?
Doesn't matter. How do you spell it?
It's more important to know
what you want to become
than how to spell it.
Smart aleck.
So what do you want to become?
Really want to become?
- Yes, really.
A doctor.
To do that you first have to know
how to spell 'I will become'.
I do know.
- Do you? How?
With a W.
With a W! Go on,
go and play wootball.
With a W.
From wootball.
This is fantastic.
It reminds me a bit of Fleetwood Mac.
Fleetwood Mac?
- Heard of them?
Yes.
- Good.
This reminds you of Fleetwood Mac?
- Not all of it, but...
Some parts.
Have you seen it, mini Speckolino?
There, the sea.
No there, the other side.
That big wet thing over there.
You're as smart as your father.
- Come on, Milan, push.
Push, Milan.
When you sit in a wheelchair,
it's as if
you've not only lost the use
of your legs but your brain too.
If you ask someone a question,
two out of three reply to
the person pushing you. Watch.
Excuse me, miss. Do you know
where the closest toilets are?
The best thing to do is turn round.
See that hotel there? There's a toilet
there, but you have to pay.
I think it should be accessible for you.
Alright.
- OK.
Good luck. Bye.
- Bye.
Did you see it?
- I saw it.
A nice pair though.
- A dynamic duo.
And they say
there are no hills in Holland.
Do we have to watch
Belgium-Holland in Holland?
Yes, we have to.
Look at little Jef.
Man is the only animal who comes into
the world so helpless and defenceless.
A foal pops out.
And jumps a few fences.
But we... look, it doesn't
do anything. Just sits there.
That's because of our big stupid head.
We have to come out before it's fully
grown, otherwise we'll get stuck.
That's why we're born before
we're ready. We're unfinished.
It's also due to the size of that
brilliant brain that we live too long.
With inventions like drips
and Zimmer frames and stuff.
While you just lay there dribbling.
- Calm down.
Is he at it again?
Life is a short bridge
between helpless and helpless.
Crap. Who's helpless?
Go on, tell me. Who's helpless?
Your theory's wrong. Man is the only
animal who continues to care for others.
You look after Jef, and you Milan.
- But that makes sense.
And we look after you, idiot.
We're here, we're not going anywhere.
And you're definitely
not going anywhere.
Remember? Leave no man behind?
They're your words.
We're not going to leave anyone behind.
No one.
If there's anyone we're definitely
not going to leave behind, it's you.
Come on, Holland, come on!
- Thomas, could you inject him now?
Yeah, I could.
Don't put him on.
Oh, come on!
You stink, pal.
You stink of Belgium.
Fuck this.
It happens, Mario. Come on.
I try...
- Of course you do.
For Mum, for Dad.
For Milan and for you lot.
But...
Things are looking grim.
Things are looking grim, guys.
Working from home is
the modern thing to do.
I wouldn't mind doing it but
I can hardly drive my car round at home.
It's not finished.
It... I haven't...
I haven't finished it.
Don't worry about it,
I'll just tell him...
I can't see very well any more.
It's getting hard to write,
the speech isn't finished.
Don't worry, you know the mayor,
he'll improvise.
'It is a great honour to be here today,
blah blah blah.'
And before you know it...
Look after yourself,
that's the important thing.
The rest will sort itself out.
Fuck.
I can't do it.
OK.
Thomas...
Well...
I can't do it like this.
I mustn't.
But I don't know if...
if I can keep going for much longer.
I'm losing, Thomas.
I'm losing my mind.
- You don't know that.
Yes, I do. I do know it, Thomas, I do.
I can feel it.
I'm drowning.
My body is already underwater.
And the water is rising.
And soon my head will be underwater too.
What will be left then? Nothing.
All I know is,
it won't be me that's left.
But we will know it's you.
We will know.
Your parents, and Milan.
You promised him
you'd be there to see him graduate.
What for?
To give him what as a present?
A father who's a vegetable.
To be there. Just to be there.
To be there.
- Yes, to be there.
I've still got my slippers on.
Me too.
- Oh yeah...
Go to sleep.
After years of fierce debating,
there is to be a marathon session
on euthanasia in the Senate this week.
When he really cannot go on,
who are we to tell the patient
he has to keep going?
The principle of the bill
is that a doctor may end
his patient's life
if the latter requests this himself
and if his suffering
has become unbearable.
This request for euthanasia must be
properly thought through and be repeated
and be checked by three doctors...
Hello, Robert.
You can just alleviate the pain,
reduce the suffering.
But that is 95% of what we do anyway.
And we mustn't forget that
less than 20 years ago
palliative care was not allowed,
even though we think it normal today.
But what was allowed was for someone
to lay there dying like an animal.
Until a nurse on the night shift, or a
brave doctor, could stand it no longer
and at night, behind a curtain, quickly
gave them one injection too many or
a dose that was just a bit too high
and the patient was
put out of their misery.
Do we want to carry on like that?
That is the question
the Senate has to answer this week.
And I hope the answer is a positive one.
Well, positive...
You know what I mean.
Thank you very much.
I'm glad you came.
There's something I'd like to say as
I don't think you really understand me.
I would think it awful too if Mario
were to decide to die at some point.
It would be terrible.
- More than terrible.
Yes, more than terrible.
This law doesn't make him do it, it just
gives him the opportunity to do it.
Gives him a choice, which is important
for a patient, isn't it?
I don't know.
Call me naive,
but I became a doctor to help people.
I wanted to save lives.
- Of course.
I can't imagine me...
I wouldn't know how...
- You don't have to.
But this law is going to be passed?
Yes, it looks like it.
69 members took part in the vote.
44 voted in favour...
It's an important first step.
This law permits doctors...
not just to help people get better
but also to help them die.
That is very important.
The Catholic Church has reacted sharply.
Wishing someone dead
is absolutely monstrous.
Are you alright, Francine?
- Yes.
It hasn't come as a surprise, eh?
- No.
I'm more worried for Roger.
After the Senate the bill
will go to the Lower Chamber,
but its opponents say...
An historic step, but for us an historic
step too far that we will not follow.
I saw my grandmother die
a slow, painful death.
For seven months, every hour of the day,
she tried to pull her oxygen mask off
and for seven months it was replaced.
- We would like to interview you.
Until she finally died.
We've all experienced this...
- Because you are his doctor.
People who have had enough,
who are worn out.
If doctors see any way of possibly
extending that life, they will do so.
Suicide is permitted.
Well, it's not, but what can they do?
They can hardly
shoot you for it afterwards.
He's the one you want.
He fits the picture better.
But dying painlessly in dignity,
saying goodbye,
why isn't that allowed?
Maybe we all need to
learn to cope with death better.
Then maybe we could
learn to cope with life better too.
We got some good stuff.
- Great.
Hello, Frank.
- Did it go OK?
The pain is killing me but as Che
Guevara said, 'Until victory always!'
Would you like a drink?
Going to join us in a drink?
- No, I'm off.
What's the matter?
- Nothing.
Smoke and drink a bit more,
then you can spout some more crap.
Am I supposed to stop smoking now?
- Ask your doctor.
It sucks, eh?
And we're going to interview Valaeys.
That could be interesting.
Ah, Thomas. Can you give me a lift?
Thomas, we can't do this.
We really can't.
God is watching us.
And... And you have to tell Mario.
You have to tell him.
It isn't up to us to take a life.
Who is it up to then?
- Him. He gives and He takes.
When He thinks the time has come?
- Yes.
Let's be honest, Roger.
Us doctors also intervene.
We extend lives.
You can't compare that
to killing someone.
Life is sacred and
it's the only one we've got.
So Mario should...
- No, he should grit his teeth.
What if they come up with a drug
tomorrow that can cure him?
What will we say then?
Is that why you come here?
- Yes.
Our Lady can help me,
I've bought enough candles.
How about I treat you to a candle?
You know, Lynn,
over the years...
with every hour of every week
and every month,
you have become more
and more beautiful.
Of course.
What?
- Everyone knows that.
Yeah, but I knew
right from the beginning.
How beautiful you were.
And how fantastic
you always thought I was.
And rightly so.
I can hardly see you any more.
But I still love the sight of you.
Sorry.
Fuck.
I'm the one who's sorry.
- No, sorry.
I have to go. I have to...
Yeah, you have to go.
Could you just give me a cigarette?
Fuck!
Did you say fuck?
What are we waiting for?
Sorry.
We've exchanged bodily fluids
after all.
I couldn't.
I couldn't do it.
It's awful, but I couldn't do it.
It would have to be him
I can't do it with.
Because he's sick.
How bloody sick is that?
- It isn't, Lynn.
It is, because if I'm honest
I'd have done it hundreds of times.
Thomas, I could keep him here.
I could give him a reason to live,
by kissing him and loving him.
And I don't do it.
You give him all your love.
I see you do it every day.
You give him... all your love.
- You don't get it, Thomas.
You have to be able to...
You have to be able to prove it.
You have to be able to do it.
You can only...
You can only do it like this.
You have to want all of someone,
including their saliva, their bacteria.
Great.
Fantastic.
Right, I'm off.
There are others waiting for
my hands of gold.
Bye.
- Bye, Glen. Thanks.
I've done something stupid.
You, done something stupid?
What a surprise!
Something really stupid.
- What?
Lynn... I tried to...
kiss her.
Among other things. Stupid, eh?
I didn't succeed.
But I think she must feel guilty now.
If I tell her not to feel guilty
it's as if I'm saying
she should feel guilty.
Dad.
- Milanovic.
- Watch out, son.
How are things at school?
- Boring.
Are they?
It's supposed to be like that, eh?
Otherwise it wouldn't be school.
How are you doing at school?
- I've failed everything.
You will have to try harder, eh?
Grandma.
Come here, sweetheart.
Look who's here.
Hello, Milan.
Did you manage to eat anything?
- A bit.
How's he doing?
- How d'you think he's doing?
He tells everyone
his dad is an explorer
who may or may not come back.
Did you tell him that twaddle?
Be careful.
Are you alright?
- Yeah. I have to be.
Yeah...
How is something like that done?
Is it an injection?
Do you really want to know?
- Yes.
If one day the time has come...
I have to plan ahead, Thomas.
For him too.
It can be done with an injection
or something they drink,
usually barbiturates.
Then they sink slowly into a coma,
like they're falling asleep.
And they're given something at the end
to stop their heart.
Ah, Schubert. Hear that?
That's drama in musical form.
All the stories in this music
can only be told with this music.
Can you hear that?
No.
I still can't hear it.
- You still can't?
He never finished his eighth symphony.
It's strange, no one knows why.
It lay there for years and then he died.
Quite young, in fact.
Aren't you scared... of... of dying?
No, I'm not scared of dying. No.
Well... No, not really.
It's strange, but I'm not.
In the whole of my life
I've only been scared of one thing.
That something would happen to you.
But it won't, eh? You're going
to be just fine, aren't you?
You're only half a symphony too,
but you're going to have to
write the second half yourself.
I'm just sorry...
Silly.
...that I won't hear it.
Can you hear it now?
No.
- Just say yes.
Yes.
Amid international interest,
the bill legalising euthanasia was
passed in the Lower Chamber today.
That means patients whose suffering
has become unbearable
can now ask a doctor to end their life.
51 voted against it
and 86 voted in favour.
The Lower Chamber passes the law.
Apart from the Netherlands, Belgium is
the only country to legalise euthanasia.
But it is noticeable that
no one applauded the new law.
For Mario Verstraete, the MS patient who
has become the public face of this law,
this is a victory but possibly
also a defeat because, Mr Verstraete,
it could also be the announcement
of your imminent... decision?
Listen, I see it like this.
I'm going to die at 40.
That's young today but in olden times
that was a ripe old age.
Soon people may live to 150
and 75 will seem very young.
I'm not interested in
how long someone lives,
just in how.
I've had a fantastic life.
Mr Verstraete?
Darling? Darling? You poor thing.
Are you OK?
- Yes, yes, I'm alright.
Dad?
I dropped it.
It's OK. It's OK.
We can...
- Leave it, Lynn.
Leave it, darling. It's OK. It's OK.
It'll be fine.
I think we should follow
the correct procedure.
Let's go round the table.
Olivier?
We've discussed it for a long time.
Usually I'm the first to tell
MS patients they mustn't give up.
They mustn't panic.
But in 5% of the cases we are dealing
with this kind of illness,
which attacks you from inside,
as it were.
You can carry on living with it.
But if you don't want to...
That's why I'm going to...
Mario is mainly worried about
the damage to his brain
and what may possibly happen:
total blindness, inability to speak,
loss of memory and social skills...
It's not certain it will all happen but
I understand what Mario is afraid of.
We won't turn it into
a long, drawn-out funeral.
Here, 30 September. An excellent day.
Indian summer. Hoka Hey,
as the Lakota Indians used to say.
An excellent day to die.
30 September.
Hold on.
It's not because you can do it
that you have to do it, Mario.
You've got plenty of time. Eh?
Why rush it? You've got time.
You've got time.
I've lived a sloppy life.
And I don't want a sloppy death.
Don't begrudge me that.
Let me at least get one thing right.
Do it with style.
I understand. I understand your fears.
But why so soon?
I shouldn't have asked you.
Sorry.
We'll do it without you.
30 September.
Mum.
I'm sorry... sorry, Mum.
- One day you'll learn to be quiet...
For all the trouble.
Things like that
make you know you're alive.
Yes, but... it's not right.
- Be quiet, son.
When you bring a child into this world,
you know it will leave it one day too.
That's the way it is.
Just look at me sitting here.
39...
I'm 39 years old...
and I'm a baby again.
There aren't many who are that lucky.
Sorry, Mum.
It's OK.
Your Worship.
Can I hold it for a moment?
How are you going to feel?
Dad says I mustn't be too sad.
But I'm not going to listen to him.
And then, after that,
I'll probably feel less and less sad.
And then...
I'm going to miss him, of course.
But...
I already spend most of my time with Mum
and when I'm not with Dad,
he's still my dad.
So when Dad isn't there at all any more,
not even at the weekend,
he'll still be my dad.
Is it true that Dad, Speck and you
fought the American army?
Yes.
Your dad stopped the Cold War
all on his own.
The Cold War?
Or at least, warmed it up quite a bit.
Here we go.
Thomas? What have you got with you?
What I've got with me, pal,
are the best things in the world.
What a coincidence,
that is my final wish.
Then today's your lucky day.
- Yeah.
Like Socrates said
before drinking the poison...
I don't like that.
Haven't you got anything else?
Now we go our separate ways.
I to die, you to live.
Which is better God only knows.
That's what Socrates said.
It could be that
you come back as a sexy chick.
Could be...
Thank you.
Come on! Hey!
- I didn't do anything.
It's true. What did you say?
Pardon?
- Pardon?
It's not...
It's not because of that fire...
But you want to be cremated,
don't you?
Yes, definitely. Go up in flames.
But there's going to be a service.
- That'll do, stop it.
I've already prepared everything.
It's in the bag.
Or in the urn.
I've arranged the ceremony,
chosen some music.
Music to cry to, but still fantastic.
I've also written a text.
I'm going to make a speech.
- Are you?
A great speech.
I'm already thinking about it.
Deeply philosophical.
- Deeply philosophical...
But with a touch of humour.
From Speck's box of jokes.
You'll be sorry you're not there.
- That'll do, Speck.
I'm sorry now.
What will it be like when I'm dead?
Maybe you can rehearse in advance.
- OK, we will.
Then I can hear it.
- Stop it.
I can correct things.
- You're all sick.
He is sick, that's the problem.
- Go and cool down, Speck.
D'you think I don't dare?
- Yes.
You don't dare.
- Let's do it then.
Come on then. At my old age!
Watch out.
- Come on, pal. You're going in.
No, you're going in.
- No, you are.
OK?
Yeah.
Make sure you're warm enough,
Crazy Horse.
Unless you want to go for a swim.
- No.
I'd rather stay here with you.
- And me with you.
I'm going to have to miss you for a
long time. You won't have that problem.
I've missed you all my life.
That's too cold!
- You're going in.
No, no.
There's something horrible in there.
An eel or a crayfish.
It's too cold.
Not doing something is cool too.
I'm going to warm it up first. OK?
I'm not going in there then.
With regard to the best things in
the world, I've brought something too.
But you have to shut your eyes.
OK.
Richard Strauss.
The best music in the world.
I'm tired.
Hello, Dad.
Good morning, Mario.
Did you sleep well?
No.
Neither did I. I was too hot.
Will you be OK? Will you manage?
You know what my father always said.
Don't complain, just get on with it.
And pray for strength.
You, pray?
Do you know the story of Simeon?
Get that book there.
That beige one. There.
The one on Rembrandt.
It's on the cover.
Simeon, the old man who wouldn't die
until he'd seen the Messiah.
It's a beautiful painting.
Simeon finally saw Jesus in a temple.
He held Baby Jesus in his arms,
looked up to heaven,
blissfully happy,
to ensure God kept His promise.
Absolutely blissfully happy.
Because he is finally allowed to die.
It's allowed, even in the Bible.
Even there...
Yeah... But he's an old man, Mario,
and you are a young colt.
Have you seen me
galloping around much lately?
Dad, you believe...
you believe in paradise.
And everything being fine in the end.
That we're all going to eat
rice pudding off gold spoons.
Be happy...
Dad.
For me.
Have you already seen the Messiah?
You haven't, eh?
Haven't I?
Watch out. Be careful.
- Come here, son.
Sleep well?
No...
We didn't either.
The president of the United States,
George W. Bush, declared last night
that if the UN's Security Council
doesn't do anything about Iraq,
the United States and
a number of their friends will do so.
He's asking Congress
for their support. Bush...
Thomas Dhondt.
Yes, just a minute, I'll go outside.
When? When had you thought to do it?
Yes.
OK, goodbye.
Here, Chinese throwaway. A different pong
in the car for a change.
Will you be OK, brother?
- It's one journalist after another.
Someone from La Dernière Heure
phoned just now. Symbolic, eh?
To ask if we don't know anyone
who can stop him.
And national TV asked if they can
broadcast their interview tonight.
It's not a sports car.
Honestly. Chinese...
Come on, let's put it on a nice tray.
The Last Supper.
Ah, Malio.
- A thirty-thlee for me.
With plawn clackers?
- Andminelal water.
Minelal water, natulally.
Give him my legards.
- I will.
An angel flying past.
That's what they say
when there's a silence, eh?
Yes, that's true.
I had quite a lot I wanted to say
but I've forgotten what it was.
Ummm...
I'd like to do my speech now.
If I may.
Everyone is here, so...
I think this is a good time.
Dear friends.
I thought that was a nice beginning. And
it's true, so you can take it literally.
As everyone knows,
I studied philosophy.
So if anyone should be able to talk
about life and death, I should.
But...
Some English, to make it sound good.
I don't know anything, except
what I learnt from you, Mario.
You squeezed more stupidity, wisdom
and pleasure into forty years
than others do into 140 years.
It's simple.
We die because we live
and because we die we have to really live.
You fought for your life and your death.
That's typical of you.
Resigning...
before you are fired.
You've even pulled a fast one on death.
Actually, I don't feel
that sorry for you,
but I do for myself.
Or rather, it's for all of us here...
that I feel sorry.
Your dad taught me
lots of great things, Milan.
I've had so much fun with you.
That's why I am going to be so sad.
It's going to be a real problem.
But here's an interesting
philosophical dilemma:
if this is an amputation,
would we rather not have had an arm?
If we're going to hurt so much, would we
rather not've had so much fun with you?
Not me, anyway.
In fact, I reckon none of us here.
No one would have wanted to
have missed out on a single moment.
Not even this moment.
We're going to swear and grieve
because you are leaving.
But we're going to celebrate
because you were here.
So go to sleep, you're tired.
The trees will still be there tomorrow,
but won't know how to stand up straight.
The wind will still be there tomorrow,
but won't know
in which direction to blow.
And we will still be there too.
And Milan will be there,
to become cleverer than you.
Which isn't that difficult.
And we're going to tell our Jef
all about you. All your exploits.
And we're going to
stand up straight again.
You could do it with your crutches,
so why wouldn't we be able to?
We've enjoyed looking up
at the stars too much
to be afraid of the night.
We're going to learn to enjoy
the pain of missing you
because this pain contains all our joy,
our gratitude for having known you.
You won't be there any more,
but you will always be with us.
And so I'm saying,
'Until always.'
Thank you for everything, Mario.
That was lovely. Lovely.
There they are.
- Laurel and Hardy.
That was a long time ago too.
- Yes.
Milan.
Hello.
Hello everyone.
Roger.
Hello, doctor.
Hello, Frank.
- Mario.
Milan.
OK?
Yes.
It's been a good day.
Not easy for anyone.
No, I can imagine.
Mario, I can just leave, if you like.
It's important you know that.
And we can talk about it again later.
You can have many more good days.
You should leave a good party
when it's in full swing.
So, we'll... we'll do it.
Four pharmacies.
I had to go to four pharmacies.
Everyone seems to know all about it.
No one wanted to give it to you?
The fourth pharmacist had seen her mum
suffer for three years. I got it there.
Well...
Just a drink in a glass.
Will you dream of me? And me of you?
Of course. For a very long time.
I'll have an early night tonight.
- Good idea.
See you later.
- See you later.
Bye, Dad.
- Bye, son.
I'm so glad you were my dad.
Me too.
Be careful on your expedition.
- Yes, of course.
And you be careful on your bike.
Take good care of Mum, eh?
And tell her that I always loved her.
I'm so tired. So tired.
Fancy a drink?
Yes, could do.
Don't forget.
Drink it all in one go. OK?
Thank you.
Thanks, mate.
No, thank you.
For an awful lot.
I don't know what to say.
You think of something.
Make something up.
Something good, eh?
Chin up, Dad.
FOR MARIO AND
HIS FAMILY AND FRIENDS
THE EUTHANASIA LAW WAS PASSED
IN BELGIUM ON 28 MAY 2002.
MARIO VERSTRAETE WAS
THE FIRST PERSON
TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE LAW
HE HAD FOUGHT FOR FOR YEARS.
Credit to >>> Christine Le Piez (Translated)
i'm just join 2 subtitle become 1 :p
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org